---
layout: post
title:  "PUBG: A Delightfully Intense Experience"
date:   2017-12-05 12:44:06 -0500
excerpt: "“I’ve got eyes… four hundred meters North West bearing on my three forty-five… Engaging.”"
---

“I’ve got eyes… four hundred meters North West bearing on my three forty-five…

…Engaging.”

So, what’s the deal with this Player Unknown Battlegrounds game that everyone’s been raving on about? That’s the question that I would continuously ask myself while watching the development of what would now be an industry disrupting heavy hitter.

Player Unknown’s Battlegrounds (more popularly known as PUBG) released a few months ago under the radar under early access on Steam. For reference, early access enables game developers to release their a very much “work in progress” copy of their game to the market. In the past, this method of financing has led to cash grab game development, broken promises, and the anguished cries of thousands of frustrated gamers.

So, when I heard about PUBG for the first time, I wasn’t impressed.

Oh, another battle royale styled shooter you say? And It’s early access to boot?

How bout nah fam…

I’ll stick to playing Overwatch while I watch this hype train crash and burn like it always does…

But it didn’t. The train went off the rails and kept rolling.

As of this November, the game has reached unprecedented success, reaching 2 million sales in the process.

Holy hell.

So what’s the deal then?

At first glance the game is relatively standard fare when it comes to its genre. The games mechanics are inspired by numerous Arma knockoffs and other predecessors of its kind. You have your fair share of generic weapons, each lending themselves to a variety of tactical gameplay styles. You have your armor and health items which are important for late game survivability, and equipment like weapons optics and grips that increase your effectiveness with your tool of choice.

What this game does well is refining each of these elements, and funneling them into the gameplay. In past games of this type, I have found myself scrambling for the best loot only to find myself sprinting long distance across the map and getting my dome cracked by someone a quarter mile away hiding in a sniper’s nest. While this still does happen to some extent, the game does its best to remove some of the tediousness that comes with this early stage in the game by offering loot in large supply, as well as easily accessible transportation that gives the New York sub system a run for its money.

All of these refined gameplay mechanics lock into a high intensity gameplay experience. One moment you are searching through a small town, desperately seeking medical supplies for your injured teammate, only to find yourself under fire from every direction, scrambling for cover and a firing solution. It’s these blood rushing variable moments that really separates PUBG from its competition, giving it a unique gameplay that only expands with the ungodly amounts of time you’ll put into it.
