---
layout: post
title:  "The Future Is Here, The Future Is McDonald’s"
date:   2017-09-01 12:44:06 -0500
excerpt: The future has finally arrived folks! Packaged with sleekly designed interiors and automated labor systems, my distant childhood dream of living in futuristic smart cities is seemingly closer to reality, and it all starts with McDonald's.
---

The future has finally arrived folks! Packaged with sleekly designed interiors and automated labor systems, my distant childhood dream of living in futuristic smart cities is seemingly closer to reality, and it all starts with McDonald's.

When many people hear the name McDonald’s, they aren’t likely to picture the multinational fast food chain as a symbol of innovation or neo futurism. Instead, most people will visualise an image of worn tiled floors, discolored seats, and the tired expressions of service workers behind the counter. Not exactly the homeliest of images for a restaurant that feeds 68 million people daily. That being said, It came as a shock when I discovered what had happened to McDonald's down the street from my university building.

I had just finished up some tasks at work when it came around noon. Lunch break. The local McDonald’s had recently been reopened from it’s renovations over the summer. Being a college student with a tight budget, it didn’t take long for me to settle for the dollar menu. So I grabbed my wallet and set off. Upon entering, I was greeted with a newly furnished interior, fresh uniforms, and a number of brightly lit food kiosks. I was Mc-flabergasted. This looked like a McDonald’s that I would expect to see in New York or San Diego, not in Stamford. One of the employees saw my confused expression and led me over to one of the machines. She immediately began to walk me through the ordering process. A few short taps on the screen and my order was complete. I was even able to pay right at the kiosk. In a couple more minutes, my order would be ready at the counter, and I would be out the door trying to make sense of the surreal experience.

The whole time I couldn’t help but wonder, do the employees realize that they’re being phased out? Sure, ordering from the kiosk wasn’t as fast or simple as ordering from a worker, and it’s not like everyone will know how to use it. But how long before it becomes a standardised technology? It might not be instant, but over time some of those workers wouldn’t need to be there anymore. Then I began to ask myself, if we are at this point already, how long will it take before machines will be able to interpret speech and process orders in a retail environment? Automation is no new thing, it’s been happening for hundreds of years since the industrial revolution. Disruption has always been balanced through the generation of new industries and skillsets. However, in recent years this hasn’t been the case. With rapid advancement in machine learning and automation, the digital revolution seems to be destroying more jobs than it can create. Automation is becoming too efficient, and if we don’t start exploring this further, we are going to have a lot of problems. Being a Digital Media and Design major, none of this is a surprise to me. However, McDonald’s served as a reminder of how close the future actually is, and all of the implications it has.
